holy moly we got a double feature for
you tonight on hot line League episode
36 we've got two guests back-to-back our
very first one right Blastoise we're
going to talk to him a little bit about
double this video from last week and
what people think about stuff and
because he does a whole bunch of
research around player whatever we'll
get to it that's gonna be really cool
and the other thing we're gonna be
talking about is the sort of situation
that's going on in na LCS where people
keep talking about what's going on with
the pros and if they can get the right
practice and what they shift their lazy
mark thinks they're lazy we're gonna
find out all that in just a second only
episode 36 starts down hot line League
is brought to you by open by HP and here
we are we're back to the start of the
show so first off I'm gonna go ahead and
introduce my constant co-hosts to my
side Mark Zimmerman how's it going arc
it's going like I said starting to get
sick yeah fight that off and I bought
off to a path traveller last night and
it's good it's not great that's has the
has the Players Association egged your
home yet
I don't know but that'd be sick because
I could use some more eggs I don't I
don't know if that's how I ran that
breakfast burritos today so I need some
more eggs to make some more breakfast
burrito so I don't I don't think you
truly understand the concept well
excited to talk about the walls dudes
good five-second rule excited to talk
about the war that you've ignited among
who you and a hundred people right below
us though is our first guest for the
evening right Blastoise who I will be
referring to his Nathan which was his
god-given name where his parent gave a
dame or whatever before he became right
Blastoise how's it going Nathan oh it's
going pretty well
okay you should introduce yourself
because I you said an email what you did
but I feel like you're gonna be way
better at describing all that than I am
yeah of course so my official title is
I'm a researcher for riot but in
practice I'm the gameplay insights lead
and we have this whole department at
riot which is called insights and we do
a couple things but mainly it's a lot of
analytics work a lot of research mix of
data science but a lot of what we try to
do is basically gather the data to help
various teams stakeholders designers at
riot make some of the best decisions so
can you give me cuz that's like a lot of
like no one watching is like a
stakeholder yes I understand he's
talking about there can you give me like
an example of something you might do
yeah so what that actually then looks
like like honestly one of my favorite
projects was when we were doing stuff
for runes or forge the research project
around that was I bring in a ton of
players into LA we actually brought in
like hundreds to the Riot Games campus
had them play on the news League of
Legends players from wherever yeah
League players and it was everything
from like bronze to diamond players some
of them unranked all sorts of them we
bring them in we'd have them play on
this system months before it came out
and that's how we actually like generate
a lot of feedback polish it up before we
sent it out so that's like an example of
sort of like what we call like player
labs or work like it's kind of similar
like UX research a lot of other times
though the team I manages handles all
that you know spicy data you know the
win rates you know champion win rates
things like of saying that we'd call
like a snowball report which can tell
you how many games are ending in like
those really quick 15 to 20 minutes
snowball II fiestas where a couple
assassins pop off so we manage
everything from the actual kind of you
know behavior of people in the game to
like what people think about the game
and that's like the sentiment work
that's surveys that's all sorts of stuff
there so one of the first things that I
saw you ever talk about our tweet about
was when you were discussing doublelift
coming in and playing Caixa before Caixa
was announced you're like there's a new
champion double have just got the first
ever Penta kill on it that was that you
or am i right yeah that was me okay
so what it seems like you do work at
least occasionally with pro players yeah
my work actually they're twins at the
pros here and they're one of the common
ones
when we were testing the 5-band system
we actually brought in all the pro
organizations and had them do mock
drafts against each other with that
system basically trying to make sure it
was the right kind of format for it
we actually have brought in all the pros
they all tested runes were forged before
I came out as well so I've worked with
actually a lot of the pro orgs before
school and so so one of the interesting
things here was the reason why we decide
to have you on the show was because
before Ghostcrawler did his big posts
and by the way if you're watching with
odd or if you are watching live and you
feel like you need to do this a lot of
what we're gonna be talking about is a
video that tub lifted last week sort of
talking about how he felt like the patch
cadance and the way that League updates
so often comes with a lot of detriment
some downsides and that he maybe thinks
it should be patched slower or that
there should be more focused on smaller
patches or whatever and you you were one
of the first people to respond to that
and you said that you liked the video a
lot but that there was some issues or
maybe not issues but sort of
disagreements he had on on certain
aspects of his takes you want to talk
about that yeah I mean just off the bat
I have to say I really liked the video
and honestly person is a player I feel
some of the things some was talking
about I think I'm on the end of like
someone who could definitely I if the
game is being changed a bunch I'm fine
with that I think the reason why SS
video really spokes me I recently looked
over a bunch of data from a survey that
we had sent out looking over mid season
which was those three really big patches
which it reduced a bunch of change and
one of the big themes actually around
those we actually had a whole sort of
set of questions about the rate of
change of things in league and you know
when you have a pro player who's saying
hey they're changing the game too much
you know coming from the pro perspective
and then we're also seeing a lot of
players some who are really engaged some
were like you know not as engaged with
players even some new players saying
yeah this game changes a lot I'm
starting to be like yeah I think we have
everyone kind of on board across you
know all swaths of league players and
honestly internally we felt it too I
think we just disagree then on like
where that rate of change should be
like what's ideal for League yeah so so
it sounds like for the most part you
agree so we were done with us you don't
need to be on the show it's all done uh
so that's where it so there's a couple
parts though where I do disagree with
doublelift I mean and I think this is
where I'd really love you know for more
of our players to be talking about this
is the saying we want to you know invest
in more to understand but when we talk
about the change stuff so uh two of the
points that disagreed with him on one
was aatrox
and the idea of like when we reworked
those champions and this one's really
tricky because it's like he's not wrong
right we could just make a new champion
with the aatrox rework skit for those of
you guys like following and we changed
too big or we changed a champion in the
game who for the longest time was not
played and doublelift in his video used
the example of pro playwright he said
okay
aatrox has been played what like three
times in like three seasons and now is
getting played a lot when we look at
aatrox is data we also just look at all
of his regular play and man that dude
was not played much and also caused game
health issues and when you're not being
played much you cause game health issues
that sort of right when you're sick
games issues what does that mean I think
like for us game health issues is where
we sometimes it's partly because when he
is strong he's extremely overbearing you
know like old poppy not all champions
obviously it's not like they're
unhealthy for the game versus healthy
it's a spectrum old poppy is probably
the best example of this she was either
just completely useless or extremely
powerful and the way she kind of
expressed that in a game was she would
either just come you know absolutely
obliterate people or be useless and not
only that but I think I think there's a
couple reasons when we look at aatrox
there's also like a sense there like we
maybe didn't deliver on the sort of
fantasy the thematic fantasy of this
like darkened warlord dude so in some
sense it was an opportunity for us to
improve him gotcha
so we should say oh go ahead well I was
just gonna say well I think we disagree
with doublelift on some things like that
I like double
is wrong when you say oh we could have
just made a new champion with this kit
and kept the old aatrox uh you can look
at any of our reworks and and probably
say that I would argue pry from our
perspective that's like well we kind of
want to like improve the overall
holistic quality of Champions in our
game and what's really interesting is
everyone says new aatrox is like it was
basically Riven 2.0 I I mean like here's
what I would challenge you with is and I
think these are the two things I would I
would like to be seen one that we could
test right now and then one I want to
see in a little bit when we clip aatrox
his wings and bring his power down looks
he's pretty strong right now I'd like to
see two things first of all I'd be
really curious is you know new aatrox
more similar to ribbon as old aatrox was
to Tryndamere that's number one and and
from my perspective I think I think no I
think new aatrox and ribbon are way more
different than old aatrox and Tryndamere
so that's number one and the number two
is I would want to see like a more
balanced like if we get this aatrox to
say a 49% win rate
you know we're 50 something that's
relatively balanced I would love to see
his play rate at like maybe 50% versus
the old aatrox is play rate 50% I'm
gonna bet on it and I don't know maybe
they'll allow me to publish this data
but I will bet you knew a rocks
maintains more players who not only more
players but players who want to play him
more there's sort of a metric that we
use called breadth and depth breadth
being the number of players and depth
being of the players who play the
champion how many games they play
I bet he's higher on both axes cool so
before we get into questions because I
want to get into it we had a bit of a so
start today but I think it's important
to say to clarify because I think a lot
of people are gonna call in may be
thinking that you are a designer like
you are literally the person making the
decisions right like you're you're
sitting there in a room with with
Ghostcrawler saying like all right no no
patch on Tuesday instead of you know two
Tuesdays from now that's that's not the
case from what it sounds like it sounds
like you more just have like a lot of
information insight and date
into how like the playerbase works and
how all this stuff goes as opposed to
like being the person making the
decisions exactly what I try to do is I
try to inform the decisions when ghost
crawlers thinking Greg rather when he's
thinking about you know long-term
strategy for league when meddler comes
and talks to me and asks you know what
do players think about our pacing what's
the average game time or game link those
are the sorts of information that I grab
for them and I look at both the kind of
the reality of the world
how long do games last on summoners rift
I can objectively tell you that I can
also tell you how long players think
games last on summoners rift and we can
use those sort of different pieces of
data and I make recommendations to
meddler based off that gotcha
can you do anything about certainly t
champions because I think a lot of
people do you go in there and you're
like no no come on come on look the data
I'm so glad yeah yeah and I'm really
glad you brought a certain lady this is
actually my favorite ones cuz and I saw
like reddit threads about this where
they're like oh like you know certainly
T's wife League is a terrible game and
you know when is right gonna fire moths
up what's interesting is do that his
champions are the most played champions
in our game and I'll talk about Yasu
actually cuz I'm we also mean yeah like
your chats gonna flame me all that stuff
I'm I'm a pretty salty player to I'm
like a very difficult yeah so I mean I'm
like legit hard stuck high platinum I
say I'm diamond but I'm not and I
personally love yeah so but trying to
remove that bias let's look at like how
yeah so is treating at different regions
in North America everyone memes on Yasuo
right there's the like I'm a cutie pie
double lift clip of like Yasuo versus a
Yasuo and you know your team's yeah so
versus the other teams
meanwhile in China he is not only the
most played champion he's actually the
most played in North America too but in
China he's the most played champion and
the most liked champion we actually do
this really broad survey called the mass
champion survey where players actually
rate all of our champions
it's a massive
sample size we you know it's like
hundreds of thousands of players go
through this survey and yeah so is the
highest ranked in China and over there
the meme around him is I'm gonna butcher
the Chinese but it's like cual a fun non
which means happy wind man and they just
love Yasu over there also really high up
in China our champions like Zed and
what's another Oh like Thresh does
really well that though Thresh also does
well North America meanwhile some of the
North American favorite champions are
what I would call like the Auguste
browning champions uh riot August fellas
you know who did who jinx EKKO gin
what's interesting is a lot of those
characters tend to be maybe like more
fair champions in the sense that they're
like you know they don't have a ton of
agency they don't have a ton of mobility
except for Echo in that instance whereas
like yeah certainly tees champions are
all about giving the player agency
making the player have a lot of fun but
are typically frustrating for the
opponent
it's just that in some regions we don't
see them you know airing with as much
frustration as others what I'd like to
ask is like popularity and like fairness
and game health type questions or you
know it's a little weird to like for me
it's a little we're talking she's just
from a devil's advocate point of view
like I'm do you followed melee and brawl
and all like stuff that happened there I
I don't follow melee I do follow a lot
of Starcraft if we ever talk to
Starcraft though but give me the melee
talking about melee was like May there
was this really popular game it had a
competitive scene everyone really liked
it brawl comes out the game's really
different a lot of characters are just
straight-up nerfed it's play is
completely different and then there was
one champion called or one champion
Jesus character called Meta Knight and
he was the only one that people said
felt like a melee character and as a
result he was really really popular but
he was also fucking broken in that game
because he was felt like you know a
champion from a different game and his
popularity was really high but he has
eventually banned from competitive play
because he was literally
just broken in that game and so like I
would want to get your thoughts on like
a situation like that like how you
balance you know oh well while this
champion is really popular it might not
be for the healthiest of regions recent
excuse me
yeah there's two points on that so one
one that I can kind of push back against
you with and then the other one which
I'll agree with you
so I guess shooting myself in the foot
the first point is there's something
which we can which we would call like
win rate sensitivity and this is how
likely a character is going to change in
its play rate based off of its actual
strength in the game characters like Lee
sin and Yasuo
even when their win rates fall below 50%
both of them are actually the most
played characters in the game still even
when they're not strong there's still
the most played in fact we when I report
uh for some regions I have to exclude
yeah so and Lee sin because it's you
know we called the Asura horizon because
they actually distort the play rank
graph because they're so high up there
the other thing that people forget is a
lot of those a lot of that play rate
actually comes from normal games and not
necessarily from ranked games you also
and Leeson don't have an overbearing
presence in ranked unless they're strong
because then people want to play them
but in other games people love to play
them so in normals in flex hughes stuff
like that so that's point number one
point number two is I agree that there's
almost something like if you look at
where League of Legends was several
years ago and I mean several usually
like to be honest I actually started
playing league in like season five and
really getting into it then Billy if we
go to like back when League launched
right there were no champions with the
mobility profile of Yasuo or said or Lee
sin and there's something to be said
that and I've actually there's a
designer on Lake who has made this point
before which is that like yeah so is too
fun and you also almost like is too
different than a League of Legends
champion such that everyone wants to
play him because he gives you you know
an experience that is like the
transcends normal League it's almost
like why you know if you play Yasuo and
earth
it's just normally osawa right with ya
lower windwalk cooldown so yeah so is
kind of just an earth champion a
character like Yasuo Riven Lisa I think
are a lot like that
the only pushback then I'd have devised
a lot of leaks characters have moved in
that direction and have sort of
increased agency increased mobility not
necessarily mobility creep but just
we've moved a lot of our champions past
the design of say like malzahar or Annie
but I do agree there there could be
pushback that hey maybe some of those
champions like break the experience of
League too much and that's why so many
people gravitate towards them gotcha
cool well hey let's hop into calls a
mark I don't know if you want to pull
maybe like four or five people just
because I know we we've got a second
half of the show but what do you want to
go ahead and explain how that works mark
yeah so people who haven't seen the show
before what we do is we have a discord
I'm posting it in twitch chat right now
go ahead join up and when you get here
you're gonna want to hop into one of the
pleb calls pluck calls wanna plug calls
to and you can meet yourself once you're
in there and then in the text channel
pleb topics you go ahead and post
whatever it is you want to talk about
we'll go through there look at whatever
questions you guys have and if we like
it we'll pull you into the waiting room
where you have to wait for your turn and
then we do a quick audio check to make
sure that your microphone is not
underwater and then you got kind of
quiet there mark at the end we'll bring
you on the show okay cool there we go
for for those of you that are subs by
the way if you set up the chant show
make sure you hop into the sub chat on
on the discord because you can put your
questions there it doesn't necessarily
guarantee you'll be on but it does give
you a bit of a higher chance because
that channel moves a little slower so
that's kind of the advantage that being
a sub has and as we call or as we pull
the first couple of callers I've got
some shoutouts to give to people who
have subbed speaking of subs let's see
Lukas Wyler subt thorn 7 119 shaloo CAG
no I think that's that 272
creeper 78 I am Elvis for he said every
month I said with hopes to fund hotline
linked to all technical difficulties and
start time here's to next month and Jedi
Mesa resub for three months saying thank
you for everything you do Travis so we
should be getting some people lined up
right now
Marc is off and the other channel
checking stuff out excited to talk about
double this video and so much more here
in just a moment actually go ahead I was
just gonna say speaking of double this
video that's like a great example of
what we mean by like these sort of fun
characters I mean we talked about the
Zedd versed ryu faker out play being
like one of the greatest moments of the
league while there were several
designers who worked on it one of them
was certainly t who worked on zen so you
know everyone's saying you know I'll
certainly T whatever it's like I don't
know if what if that was faker versus
Ryu malzahar burst malzahar would that
have been this if I'd be sick just who's
gonna hold the other one first oh it's
crazy right like no I mean I think
that's why if you saw a top lane fight
that was Yasuo versus ribbon that might
be more fun than I don't know two tanks
hitting each other with what noodles
yeah
Sushi's on the show sushi now Kai's my
wet dream sushi where he come from
Seattle very good what do you want to
talk about on the show today um so my
topic is that I remember people are
bringing back up peeing issues for na
like our lower back then that the server
was in Portland do you think will be
better if you have multiple servers just
like how in China they do it there
multiple servers that people could join
for better peen in rural area this is
interesting I'm very curious to see how
deep it handles this since this is like
my forte um
so I'll just preface this with this is
not like a you know uh uh you know I
work on the gameplay research and that
side of things this would be something
like our you know yeah like a little out
of my scope but to give maybe some
perspective on would be
like I mean I think part of the
difficulty would be how could you
if you pull okay so if you split North
America region I think we might be
concerned that you would split the
player but he's too much so I think
that's one of the concerns I think we've
actually voiced that before but this is
sort of a tough one for me to answer and
again it's like there will be some
questions right I have to say it's not
necessarily my job so yeah this one is a
little tricky yeah I get it it's not
it's not your department well we could
have like a like a hub and then you know
multiple servers if there's let's say
there's not enough players in East Coast
you could have them come join the West
Coast server or like a middle server
point to make the ping better because my
friend usually he usually like gets
really high peen B since the service in
Chicago and usually sometimes you can't
play sushi why don't we do this why
don't we have you come back on in the
second half of the show which is more
oriented around this discussion and then
we'll we'll have because we're talking
about peeing and all those types of
issues in the second half
so we'll just guarantee we'll throw you
back in the waiting room and then if you
can stick around for the next hour we'll
be able to pull you in for the second
half all right thanks sushi yeah and two
you know policies huge I promise it's
not that like the chest like Oh be
truthful it's like how do you know how
do we try like how do I answer I don't
know that I don't know that engineering
required to do that I don't know what
that does to to our player base I
wouldn't necessarily know how that works
in all honesty when I've gone over and
done things in China I was only working
out of our office in Shenzhen so I was
actually only playing on one of the
servers there and when we actually did a
lot of the testing in China for runes or
Forge and for some other things we were
doing that internally as well so
questions like you know how do we make
servers in other regions if someone came
on and asked hey are you guys gonna make
a you know server in this country I
wouldn't be able to answer those let me
ask you one question instead of and so
the sushi one I am very curious I'm very
curious if
you do you and I don't know if you're
gonna be comfortable talking about this
but so I imagine you guys see how
frequently the game updates and that
there must be some sort of metric in
which you guys can measure against like
player retention right like do do
players play more do they come back more
frequently do they do any of this stuff
are they more active in the game if the
game is updated more frequently versus
if we have a stretch where the game
doesn't get updated do we starts like
lose players or anything like that
I don't I don't know how comfortable you
are talking about that but it would be
very interesting to know like like
double this whole argument is or one of
his big arguments in the video is
there's like a fatigue that hits players
if the game is updated too frequently
it'd be interesting if you you based off
your analysis feel like that's different
yeah I have I have somewhat of an answer
for this the first thing I'll say is
it's actually really hard for me to talk
about the engagement with if we change
the game a lot or if we change the game
a little and then to compare those
partly because we honestly there's no
good apples to apples comparison when we
were changing the game like adding new
champions every two weeks that was a
totally different ecosystem than us
today what I would say is I think it's
something we're willing to try and then
see how it might affect player attention
or stuff like that so it's definitely
like a test we want to do and
holistically for this year we really do
feel like we changed the game too much I
think this was the largest preseason the
largest gameplay change we ever made and
then when we got to midseason we
actually split out the mid-season patch
across like three different patches so I
think that whole thing caused a ton of
disruption and a ton of change
well I can't necessarily speak to like
the engagement it definitely caused a
bunch of issues in terms of like
sentiment we were seeing and not just
you know reddit but in different regions
we were seeing a lot of you like hey
you're changing the game too much we
want things more stable and the other
thing is there's a lot of like call
lateral damage that comes to changing
the game too much one of them is
snowball eNOS like these kind of hectic
games that get out of control where one
team just gets an insane lead and
crushes the other and those tend to
happen more when we disrupt the game and
more when we get larger changes so one
of our challenges is actually to
disentangle like a change that we made
to the game versus the impact that it
had on game pacing cuz anytime you
change the game people you know so for
instantly change the runes reforged
people are like learning new damage to
us holes learning how a new electrocute
and so the defensive runes are gonna
work and all of a sudden you know they
get in some fight someone dies when they
normally wouldn't have because they
would have known what to do and they
would have played it safer and the game
kind of snowballs out of control and we
have found that at times when there's
greater disruption in the game game
pacing gets more wild yeah I think if I
was to like pitch something and maybe
you know maybe saying I'd like this is
something I would personally pitch not
thing riots doing this or that hourly
desires is what I'd let maybe like to
see us try is have one major point of
disruption every year we'll call that
preseason we just do a major point of
disruption the game the goal of that is
not just to shake things up but they
actually find something in the game
meaningful that we can improve on a
larger level and then after that we look
to stabilize the game for the rest of
the year and provide content that
supports that major disruption so what
that would have looked like for this
year for 2018 is hey we do runes or for
gym preseason and then instead of maybe
a patch every two weeks we could do a
patch every month and maybe it'd be a
pretty large patch but it would provide
things like the Conqueror rune like hail
of blades and would be providing updates
to that system but the theme of 2018
would be ruins or forge and us bringing
League of Legends sort of back into its
normal space before we disrupt it again
and so all the changes that occurred
this mid season be you can play
champions wherever you want crazy things
in the bot lane I think that kind of
change is actually OK for League but I
think we should save that for a
preseason where we can sort of iterate
on it more
rapidly where players aren't losing you
know their LP because there are marksmen
and they don't know how to play Swain
bots and you know the pro players are
then impacted by less because it's not
during the middle of the season
yeah that would be my take on something
like that cool well hey we've got our
next color which is a dank sore on the
show right now tink sir
where you calling from Jacksonville
Florida I'm gonna turn you up a little
bit
what what do you want to talk about on
the show today so I want to ask if I
pronounced it correctly blouse blouse
stories ball stories I think Nathan
works you can call Nathan okay I want to
ask you if you've ever researched like
defeatist mentality and like anything so
like you it's like for example like
phrases such as like open miss render 15
open FF 15 and like seeing a like what
point a match like people typically say
that and like I want to tie it back up
so like a prose and like the environment
stuff is that like I feel like this is
this came from like the south korean
boot camps originally where you know in
south korea they paid per hour for the
computer use and so they want to get as
much games as possible when the pros are
shrinking and seeing games ending like
15 minutes you know or even like 10
minutes you know i feel like that calls
like everyone else so oh so start
adopting that same mentality and so i
was just kind of curious is it
this is something that you know your
department's ever like looked at before
yeah that's a really great question um i
think it'd be really hard to tie it back
to pros in south korea like i think
that's like a totally like viable theory
i just think it'd be really hard to
prove out that theory one of the things
we've looked into is like you know a lot
of times when people have talked about
things like player behavior in our game
or all sorts of other negative things
that occur in our game a lot of it comes
down to
yeah these games where and this is
actually one of our focuses recently is
these games that will call trapped games
and this gets a little spicy and little
interesting because it's like what
happens when there's a game where you
buy all of our metrics and we can sort
of tell us by our metrics you have a
really high percentage of losing
is it worthwhile to play those games out
just because it is you know hashtag
winnable like let's say let's say in
these games you had a 1 in 20 chance of
winning is winning at the one time worth
all of the 19 times of defeat and that's
like a really like hard research
question to answer because some of our
biggest highs in league come from these
amazing comebacks right and I think
that's what kind of bothers some people
is like there's two things are it's like
on the one hand you want to have those
amazing comeback games but on the other
hand like I have seen those games and I
think we've all been in them where the
game is kind of over and sure you could
say it's a defeatist mentality some
people say it's defeatist others and
I've even said this in my games before
we were like wow I can't believe this
riot players like so defeat it's not
like or I'm a realist right like we're
probably gonna lose this game I actually
think that's a really tricky balance and
while I don't have an answer like
necessarily an answer of like oh where
did it come from I'll say that my answer
now is we want to try and solve that
better we want it so that you can have
still have those great comeback games
you know the games that are you know
someone pops off a teamfight turns
around the other team throws a little
bit you get the hashtag winnable in
there there's a little bit of hope but
we also want to get you like out of
those games or you're like the shit's
over because those do occur and I think
one of the most frustrating things and
where we actually think and see a lot of
toxicity and like people getting really
frustrated or where you're stuck in
those games and you're it you know the
game is probably over but you're in it
for another 10 15 minutes and that's
that can feel really bad so to continue
a conversation then you know you said
right once you know somehow solve this
what do you think it is because I know
one thing I'm thinking about is that you
I playing around like master tier such
as you one level and there are some
people who just like you know just troll
whenever they see
it's a person who just and whenever see
a specific person like there's a guy
named like d1 police if he doesn't like
you he's gonna throw the game and just
like you know there's always there and
so when you ever you're stuck in like
one of those matches where like he
happens like not like one of your
teammates you're stuck there for about
10 15 minutes and just like well shit
there's nothing I can do about this and
you know it's just like freaking sucks
and you know I'm just kind of curious as
to like if you think that it's gonna you
know just like it's a combating like
interest and if cares is it you know
trying to is it like the entire
community just being like okay like stop
with the you know stop with like the
this psych
well the realist or diffuse mentality
you know and me like try shifting it
like what can write du jeu like try
shifting that I know it's kind of like
on a small question but just kind of
curious is through your thoughts
no no I that's a really good question I
think it's a really good question you
know I don't really have like a like
that's kind of a hard for me to answer
on the spot of how do we get people to
like change their entire mental model
because that'd be basically how do we
change people to be like yeah I'm never
gonna give up I'm gonna fight this out
till the end and like yeah I wish I
could do that and make it like honestly
I wish everyone would just try their
hardest and League I think I'm more than
like tactical answers and just be like
oh I can't answer that would be like I
want us to focus on cuz I think this is
one where a lot of people have separated
maybe like player behavior stuff from
game play stuff I actually think they're
really linked which is why I'll talk
which is I'd like to see us really try
to tackle some of those behavior issues
in-game and some of the motivational
issues in-game I've I've spoken about
this vocally before like even on my
stream or like elsewhere I'll say this I
the thing that I think most people who
are playing ranked and who are playing
competitive specially you you know where
you're playing in masters you people
don't like I obviously don't like the
interest they don't like the afk but
they also don't like what I would call
like soft ending which is are these
people who just kind of give up who are
like
you know kind of just lacks a day cycle
about their play they really don't like
that so I'd like us to see to work on
some system to better deal with that and
at the same time I'm personally of the
opinion that we you know should when we
look at like things like chat
restrictions and all that stuff I'd like
to see us
if someone's typing and flaming other
people in games instead of banning that
person just just chat restrict him
don't let them type and let's save the
gameplay punishments for those people
who you know for this guy d1 police guy
right like dude like a yeah if you're
doing that shit like that's the kind of
shit we're like I don't want you playing
the game but yeah I completely agree I
felt like this whole idea from you know
right like I think he originally came
from riot light who's like a huge like
supporter of this it was just like we
need to fix toxicity toxicity is like
the number one thing to fix and like
here I'm in soloqueue and like usually
most toxic people typically care the
most about the game and it's like the
ones I'm most frustrating is the you
know the the people who just you know
just want throw the game afk they don't
like I've even had people where like I
just asked them to group and they're
like you say one more word me I'm in FK
and you know I just say hey let's go
forbear and if K is just like what the
heck is supposed to do about this dawn
set it's like it's just like oh no he's
just really really fresh man it's cool
to hear that like you guys are like you
know realizing this and like want to
move more towards like you know not the
chat restriction but like the gate like
people how they behave like in games the
characters I content you feeding and
stuff well to be clear I think it's it's
you know if you're if you're saying like
awful shit in chat I think something
should be done I just don't know if that
thing like they should ban you from the
game yeah I think the people who I like
and again this is me not speaking for
riot because this is technically because
people on twitch at i was saying if you
saying this why is it like the game like
this right now chat done' i don't don't
you know say all like riot promote this
gun owned okay this is not my team this
is me actually personally speaking as a
player so there's other issues around
this but in general the the thing i
riot would agree with you guys on and
with the chaton in general is that we
think that we should do a better job
dealing with a of Caze with Inter's and
with the soft Inter's as well . that's
what we definitely want to do a better
job dealing with and we really should
and on the other hand there's stuff that
falls to my team to the gameplay team
which is like we need to make sure that
the game of League of Legends is not you
know it like is cause is not causing
this peak toxicity to speak frustration
right like some people have always said
there's and again my personal opinion i
don't think there are like toxic players
and non toxic players i think everyone
has a little bit of spice in them you
just got to get it out somehow and in in
a world where you're playing this game
that you're really passionate about
you're really competitive about and the
game is dragging on and you're stuck in
a game that you know you're gonna lose
and you know tensions are getting you
know it's getting heated that's where I
think people that's a situation where
more people are likely that that spicy
toxicity come out and that's something
for the gameplay team to work on too so
before we move on because I think we
first off I gotta grab an ad but then
also we're gonna move on to the next
couple colors
what if here's this I've got this
brilliant system for you Nathan okay so
you you say that you can kind of tell
when a game has like a one in 20 chance
of winning right so like there's a 5%
chance of a win pop-up comes up
somebody's like super frustrated they
can like disconnect from the game move
on with their life then there's a queue
a queue of people that you queue up for
you get a shit ton of IP and or blue
essence and whatever for winning this
you get a chest or whatever crazy
consumables you guys are doing these
days and and you go in there you life
save you take over their role you know
like you're or Nasus you've you've gone
just like completely wrong item path
what you'd have to win in that spot
Travis what do you what are you doing
tomorrow can I can I bring you on campus
there we go yes see fantastic okay
I love it we'll make it we'll make it
happen thank you so much thanks sir for
the call yeah thank you guys those are
great questions
Thanks thank you all right a couple more
colors really quickly as Mark gets the
next person up I want to talk to you
guys about something really cool Nathan
you can grab a drink you can do whatever
you can listen to this a wonderful ad
it's about owned by HP which is our
sponsor for the show this is Owen by HP
rig behind me they've been a tremendous
sponsor start working with a little bit
at the end of last year around worlds
then they came on to support hotline
League they support me and mark mark is
using their headset right now it's so
comfortable he's starting to fall asleep
a little bit during this yeah he's see
he can shake himself awake it's good
prevents shaken baby syndrome
okay I let's not talk about that um and
they do they do great work out there
they support a ton of stuff in eSports
they support overwatch League they
support CLG they support now cloud nine
and of course they support the show so I
want to thank them so much you guys are
amazing
ace Pamela Mumbai HP you guys are asking
for an omen emote you you hit them up if
you're watching the lot there's a
Twitter link in the description you can
tell them you appreciate the support of
the show you can follow them and just
sort of stay up-to-date on the stuff
that they're doing another running a
promo right now and I think there's some
links over on there their Twitter you
guys can save some money on some stuff
but yeah I really appreciate their
support as does Mark of the show and I
appreciate all of your guys's support of
them and of their support you support
their support they support us it's a
very great support system with OHP and
their systems are great too so check
them out
thanks so much to omen by HP we should
be ready for the next caller now mark
and you've already got them yeah it's
Veals Veals whoo I don't feel so have
you ever been on the show before I know
very good well where you come from from
the Montreal Quebec Montreal Quebec oh
nice yeah what it's kind of late there
so thank you for for sticking around
what do you want to talk about in the
show today so I was wondering if area
called implanted for a voting system for
the
becoming patches because I don't think
it's a it's a bad thing that riot code
implant like I think it's a thing that
could be like done and show they be
tested a long time ago so sorry you're
seeing a voting system like players
would get to vote like no I don't want
like a so nerves what they want to to
have in the next patches okay what do
you think of this fuss because you your
this would be the direct you bring
players in they test stuff here's here's
bringing that concept to the mass market
right you just make create a straw poll
says yeah so nurse yes or no you know
new skin yes or no what what do you
think of this no but I like that I mean
yeah like that like that's a no just
because like you're gonna get I mean I
could list I like there's somebody
there's somebody's scared it's like you
get like tearing tyranny of the masses
or whatever it's like again I talked
about all those yeah so mains and if the
you know the Chinese player face ever
got all of those votes you know North
America is gonna be seeing yeah so and
lease in a lot right and they're just
gonna vote over even if you had it by
region people who played lesser
champions or even champions that were
just more you know polarizing would get
you know obliterated for that and then
also I don't know this is here's the
thing it's not that we don't want to
listen to players that's the the key is
that I don't think that we should just
you know strictly listen to them and I
mean I could use the what is it the old
adage by was the whole like Henry Ford
thing although it's not actually a quote
by him though a lot of people think it
is the if I asked people what they
wanted they would have said faster
horses instead of a car so I think that
that applies here people you know a lot
of our players might not have the best
idea of like what what is good to
balance the game there's all sorts of
other things we're like as soon as
everyone starts voting for something
even if it's like man like even this
would be a crazy like sort of test and
psychology like even if you just showed
the
showed the poll results and people start
to vote on things or someone just
plugged
oh yeah everyone's voting for this thing
more people would be likely to do that
you could have all sorts of weird
manipulations around this but that being
said the spirit of the question I
actually still think is important which
is I think it's still worthwhile for us
to get feedback from players and maybe
that's something beyond PBE
something that we are looking to do is
to run more we run surveys that are
always assessing like broader general
things with the game I'm actually
working with our live gameplay team to
run surveys that will actually
specifically correspond to a balanced
patch so we can get an idea of what
players in different regions actually
felt about that patch and that's where I
think we make sort of the best decisions
is where we're as we say in incites
data-informed not data-driven so I get
to go to the designers I get to go to
meddler and say here's what players are
thinking about this patch here's what
they're feeling about it we can then
look at the actual reality of the data
of you know what are the win rates of
that patch and then we can use the
design intuition of the team we put all
those things together and I think that's
where we're gonna make some of the
better decisions don't think we should
have players vote on it so yeah for sure
but go ahead like it's not like them the
votes comes from riot like just to take
some suggestions so that kind of it
sounds like what you're talking about
Nathan right which is like trying to
have another avenue for feedback yeah
yeah so no I think that's the thing and
actually so maybe what you're asking for
and we have this is yeah we do collect
that feedback but I guess what you would
want is have that feedback meet more
transparent be more like open-ended so
it's like the players like oh this is
what the players were saying about this
patch and riot did this whereas right
now it's like we kind of know a lot
about what players say about the patches
and this is one where I shared this data
previously when people were like it
wasn't related to the jungle changes it
was actually related to the addition of
jungle fruit or
ever the like plant our jungle plants
right we added plants into the game and
I remember on reddit people like oh this
is so dumb this is like really silly an
NA specifically was like a lot more
harsh towards it or is like every other
region including Korea which tends to be
you know like a like pretty like
critical region of a lot of stuff we're
like super about it so in that sense we
actually do collect that feedback maybe
that's a conversation you know I need to
have what the teens about hey like maybe
I can make some of that data more
transparency guess who we give feedback
to you about what you guys said about
various patches or changes well here's
here's a question for you so I think a
lot of people feel like if they feel
strongly about something the only way
for that to get visibility and for riot
to like get that information is for them
to make a reddit post that gets to the
top of the subreddit or make like a
really big post on the forums where
they're like rallying everybody else and
like bumping the thread a lot and like
causing all this commotion and and I
think for players out there possibly
like Veals right here who's calling in
it doesn't like they're it's almost kind
of like the suggestion box I even if
it's just a even if it is something
where you guys could just sort of sort
through them or it's something where you
guys are using data analysis to look at
the general sentiment or perceptions
around the stuff like it's probably hard
for players who feel like they want to
be a more active participant or have
right listen to them like there's not a
venue for them to really share that
feedback um I mean that's not - like
I'll say this I don't think that we
we're not like looking at the boards and
looking at red and were like okay we're
making the changes based off this but on
the other hand we're not just completely
ignoring those things we still consider
that as part of feedback when I talk
about those surveys and when I talk
about the methods in which we get
feedback from players that way one of
the important things about that is that
any player can get that so it's not just
players who are super engaged and who
are like I have the time and the energy
to go and make a reddit post or I'm even
just involved in aware of reddit that
means that someone who maybe plays
league more casually or maybe someone
who's really engaged and plays a lot of
league
but who just isn't as involved on the
forums or doesn't feel like they want to
make a public post somewhere they feel
like they can have a chance to get their
voice heard so that's not to say that
we'd like just ignore things on reddit
or the forums but it's not like we only
look at that but what if what if I am a
super dedicated hardcore player like so
here's a good example a lot of people
some one of my friends at Riot was like
yeah it's interesting because they heard
Peter had been talking about how he was
gonna make this video and it was sort of
like well Peter can just go talk to the
designers like at any given point in
time he can just hit them up and say
like yo Dawg what's up this kind of
sucks I'm not saying that all the
designers need to be available to the
millions and millions of millions of
people who play League of Legends but
like what is that look like for a person
who also feels like if they're
frustrated the ADCs are not as popular
or that they feel like they can't play
like the champions they want anymore
what what is an avenue for them to
express that or to make them feel like
they can talk to write about it that
isn't like a forum post or a reddit
thread like is there is there an
existence for something like that um so
I think two points on that obviously we
would be open to more you know avenues
of feedback maybe there's something we
can do in the future that is like a more
direct communication with Riot that's
not necessarily on the forums but I
actually really do think that a lot of
our surveys and a lot of the data that
we collect really does capture that
maybe the only difference is where's a
lot of players saw double this video and
saw a response to it what they maybe
didn't see is that we were already
looking at survey data we were already
looking at a lot of other data you know
that I was researching and looking at
that was like wow
players are yeah there's a there's a lot
of contention around these changes so I
feel like we do already capture that it
just might not be as visible to other
people again I talked about that mass
champion survey and it's like that
survey can like I can I can actually
tell you how players in any one of our
major regions how they stack rank any
champion from things as big as like the
overall how they feel about the champion
to the
desire to purchase physical merchandise
for the champion
re and sona when in that category
actually really alright yeah wonder why
I can tell you those things because we
have surveyed so many players on that we
you know that was that was fielded you
know by hundreds of thousands of players
so we are constantly getting that
feedback I think what might be tough as
the players who maybe don't want to make
a forum post them they're like and I get
this sometimes some players like please
send me a survey so no maybe something
that could be cool in the future is like
I don't know we can do a like high
engagers survey that'd be kind of cool I
think that'd be a sweet idea it's like a
survey that's not distributed through
random means but it's like something
that you know we give out to people who
just want to fill out and give feedback
directly to riot who are those people
and then we can sort of caveat the
results as we look at them knowing that
it was like people actively wanting to
take that survey yeah okay hey thank you
so much feels for calling in thanks
thanks feels I have have a good night
all right
humor colors I think mark that's so
funny
I'm being told I haven't lost my job yet
guy okay good good I'm glad to hear that
it came close I think I there are a lot
you rallied the audience whenever you
were talking about changing the way
players get punished or banned if they
want to make you CEO according to my
twitch chat so yeah I'll probably get
some feedback about that especially when
that red thread pops up at the top
that's like right Blastoise we shouldn't
be banning anyone killing you guys
my blouse toys you know think that the
worst people in the world should be
playing league yeah killing you guy is
here he I say he because it says guy at
the end of his name has a mute icon next
to his onion it's off where you come
from
I'm here from Newton Connecticut from
Connecticut very good how are you doing
tonight
good very good what do you want to talk
about on the show I wanted to talk about
I know that there was a lot of feedback
on the double video about power creep in
the game and I think one of the topics
that sort of less often talked about but
still is relating to power creep in the
game over time is with respect to the
map and how summoners rift has changed
even from the earliest seasons so I mean
you know obviously you know between
season four I think the season for
season five ish you know you had the the
visual graphics update but even beyond
that you know we've introduced things
such as you know changing the standard
Drake to the four elemental Drake's
there's been into the introduction of
plants into the jungle both the glass
cone as well as the the fruits the
jungle and then you know most recently
the or even before that there was the
rift herald change to be more impactful
into the game and now you have the you
know the changes to scuttle crab and you
know I just think back you know in the
early seasons of the game the jungle was
almost like a more unforgiving place you
know it definitely rewarded certain
champions at higher higher mobility you
know say like Nidalee for instance you
know I know we went and got reworked you
can hop over you know spaces in the
jungle or cane you know has a high
mobility champion through walls and
things but other than that you know if
you were caught out in the jungle you
know there was a much higher skill gap
required to to escape
things like jungle clears you know
there's a lot more sustain now since you
know when you'd kill a rift Herald you
know it's like 50% your health and mana
back or something like that
you know III think that you know the
increase amount of sustain in the jungle
you know is you know it's not a high
impact regime so it sounds like you're
you're just curious about sort of how
the jungle has affected the game yeah I
think so every time I also like to come
with it kind of more with the map
mobility point too because just see any
thoughts on that because it is true that
I think you know you have to Lea a
really in seoul talon probably getting a
couple but like not just i guess from
saying is not just in combat mobility in
that sense
but like map mobility has creeped up as
well as before it was like TF and maybe
knocked her and like GP all cars sold I
just want to ask if there's any like
thoughts about that kind of mobility as
opposed to like whenever people talk
about mobility could they always talk
about like this thing can dash in a
fight okay um so it's not a specific
question it's just like the general
thoughts on the changes to jungle or
changes to mobility yeah um so one thing
I think I talked about a little bit
earlier is like weig back in the day
versus League now I think we added in
certain things that were like mobility
not and not the mobility you were
talking about mark like you know the
like Zed also Leeson mobility is
certainly X something that's more fun
right so a lot of our champions maybe
moved more towards that I think actually
because we had so many more kind of
champions that had boom bility aspects
we tried to make the jungle a place
where you know things like blast cone
wouldn't totally ruin like a muumuus
ability to jungle or something like that
without just over tuning his stats
because it's like okay Nidalee and Kane
have all these insane gank pass but it's
okay we're gonna give some cool gank
paths to amumu as well right so we can
use blast come to get in a good spot or
mid laners can then room down and get in
a good spot I don't know if necessarily
the intention is that we that the game
should be more mobile that people should
be roaming more and having more fights I
think to speak about it more broadly as
it's like it's the was it's the ship of
theseus sort of thing right and in a way
we're kind of upgrading the ship what I
think we need to do though and and and
I'd be curious if you guys actually
think the added mobility of characters
like Tilly aurelion sol or the most
those mobility champs has actually been
bad for the game because I feel like
it's good the issue is like as we have
our ship you know the ship of theseus
the ship of League of Legends right and
we keep changing things maybe to try and
improve it we still have to maintain
that it is the ship that it is League of
Legends
I think especially recently we you know
changed to many parts on the ship before
we could even let it go sailing right
would be you know to follow up with that
analogy in this case though and and I
think sometimes you might change parts
of a ship that make it worse that ruin
the ship of theseus or make it not as
good and there have been changes to leak
that weren't as good I actually think
the having characters move around the
map faster be able to do things and
interact more has generally been a
positive thing for the game
iid curiously and part of the reason why
I even use that just when I look at
champions in our game uh some of the
most played most loved ones are those
with mobility either the the type that
Mark talked about that is like you know
maybe like a TF felt like that sort of
global mobility or things like the Yasuo
Zed Leeson the dashes and stuff maybe
it's because those champions forced out
the older ones so that could be the
counterpoint to me and I would have to
you know look into that my gut answers
that the sort of visceral feeling of
being able to like dashes Lee sin and do
those sort of plays and that increase of
mobility has actually made League feel
better as a game yeah yeah definitely
see like how the average players like
man I like doing cool shit in the cool
shit meter on those guys is off the
charts like you can do so much with them
stuff like Thalia where it's like I
hugged the wall and got down there fast
or a bard is like I picked up some
chimes and moved I I don't know you
probably have access to like player
enjoyment of those type of champions I
don't know if it's ever like does
because you guys I mean you you will
need to help me here a little bit but
like you I assume you guys compare like
how much the players enjoying the
mobility of Lee sin and Yasuo and Zed
and the crazy outplay versus how much
they're hampering the person that
they're against enjoyment
I wonder if have you guys done that type
of analysis but with the global movement
type champions um yeah actually is he
frame the question that way and as I
start to think of some of those
questions here's my take on actually
think those are kind of bad I think that
questions or bad no not that question
side no no I actually
or potentially not good for the game ah
- all talked about in particular
aurelion sol and Thalia yeah um aurelion
sol's a great example of a champion that
has this like insane kind of mobility
ability that is really powerful for him
and his ability to it's that plus his
ability to shove waves and he's able to
use that but I don't think it's
particularly satisfying and I know that
cuz I know his play right and despite
being a very recently released champion
despite having incredible visuals and we
know this is rated really high man dudes
you know he looks great he has you know
he's a cool space dragons up he's not
really played that much people don't
really get that much enjoyment out of
him and I think that's actually similar
with Thalia as well um both of those
characters like I think we've even found
this with things like cloud Drake as
well things like being able to just move
across the map faster in a kind of
passive way are really strong for the
game but they're not viscerally like
they don't feel viscerally satisfying to
the player like taking a lease in queue
so actually I actually agree with Mark
there that like some of those more sort
of passive forms of mobility that allow
you to like move around the map just a
lot faster with like minor optimizations
I I don't want to just definitively say
they're bad but I would be way more
suspicious of those than the other type
of mobility creep which I tend I think
the upside of the other mobility creep
outweighs the downsides of it and just
to add to that point as well you know I
feel like the game has become a lot less
interactive like especially like when
you look at mid lane you know you see a
lot of it to your point you know you got
a really in soul and you know rising
Taliah we're more like this couple
patches ago but with you know nurse not
as much but you know you have a lot of
champions that just like to shove the
lane and roam you know with their high
mobility and you get less of that
interaction you know that that dueling
potential you know between you know
laners and try to see you know you know
who can outplay the other person you
know personally because I switched the
jungle but you know when I first started
the game I I was a mid laner and I
really enjoyed that aspect you know
playing an assassin and you know really
just trying to outplay somebody you know
level level-2 level-3 get that get that
ignite tick off and get the first blood
and snowball the game from there you
know I feel like the games just a lot
less interactive right now and you kind
of get punished for that play style by
not just you know if you get stuck
playing one of these champions with
waveclear you're stuck clearing the wave
and it sounds like you really like
assassins well sure I actually want to
look into his point and I won't be able
to answer this for you but this is
actually a something I'm looking into
hopefully it in the next month and gonna
look into this data I actually want to
look into two things as one is just
bloodiness of games historically in
League of Legends
obviously there's like a sweet spot you
don't want to be too much or too low but
like bloodiness basically mean the
action right people are fighting the
fraggin they're scrapping kills are
happening that's fun right no one wants
to like residentsleeper TSM games I mean
shit you know like those games are like
nothing's happening right like no one
wants that but we also probably don't
just want to just complete straight
fiesta everyone's dying you know 100
kills in like 40 minutes something like
that what I want to look at though is
like not only like bloodiness for the
games but also like how much of that
bloody is is the result of a solo kill
versus skirmishes that are forced from
like jungle ganks or something like that
I want to look at that historically and
then compared it like basically find
when it was when players were most
satisfied with the amount of action or
the pacing of a game and see like what
level of bloodiness and sort of solo
kills were occurring yeah it just feels
more more than ever I mean obviously
there's ways around this but it just
feels more than ever that you know you
can really snowball a game early game
get a huge kDa
get a couple of early objectives but oh
you know other team gets barren they get
elder you know game over you know it's
like it's like all that effort that you
put into the game you know mechanically
or you know getting those early leads or
in your lane just sometimes you're just
meaningless especially like in a solo
queue environment you know it's
difficult to get everybody on the same
page
okay killing you go guy thank you so
much for calling in absolutely yeah
thanks
alright so Nathan you do have to to
leave in just a second I know we went
over time and we have a second guess but
just some quick questions for you
because
I know we talked a lot a bit broad
high-level stuff I'm curious how many of
these you'll be interested in answering
you you drop that in China you also only
Cinar huge popular characters can you
talk a little bit about popularity in in
any sense right maybe not necessarily
play rate but like what champion student
does North America like yeah
also one clarification this is like it's
a little hard to disentangle sometimes
but some of the characters that do
really well in China also you know maybe
have more of an appeal with like an
Eastern audience right like you know we
see like Leeson re like those are like
Eastern champions they do really well
Wukong actually coming from like a
Chinese legend does really well sure
some of the ones that do really well in
North America we were looking at this
today and it pains me to you know
promote you know write August's is ego
but yeah like some of his characters do
really well characters like Jin echo
jinx those three especially do really
well in North America that's cool and
that's not just like play right that's
like people liking those characters yeah
and and there's sort of you know you
want to kind of take a mix of both which
is like you want to look at both the
playwright we have this an amazing
report that actually he's one of the
guys on my team David Nevada who did
this really talented analyst who came up
with this there's actually a like blog
post that we've done about it which is
our breadth versus depth report that's
why I was talking about earlier it tells
you on the breadth side how many people
are playing a champion and then on the
depth side is of the people who play
that champion how many games are they
playing on it so in this sort of like
top right quartile those are your
characters that everyone's playing them
and everyone's going really deep on them
and even in na that's still Yasuo that's
still Lee sin and then in the bottom
left are kind of like your yikes
champions where it's like not that many
people are playing them and even the
people are playing them aren't playing
that many games on them oh you frozen
just the perfect way I'm just gonna keep
you like out there you go we came back
alright and then finally maybe you can
because twitch chat was talking about
this a little bit do you have any
interesting data interesting
facts about Teemo data or interesting
facts about Teemo and I don't know a
Teemo might be one of the ones I don't I
feel like I have these for all sorts of
chants like how do you go one for Teemo
like this should be like the number one
thing that you keep in your pocket I
think everyone always asked me for Teemo
facts and like I never like listen y'all
need to understand who I am if you want
like the random champion facts you need
to ask me about the weep champs or you
need to ask me about the hot girls like
those are the two types of champions I
can tell you any number of it so why
don't we go with the we champs animate
first off what is a weep champ to you
interestingly enough my insights team is
working on like a weeb framework cuz
it's not fair to just say like oh these
champs are weave camps there's different
kinds of weave champs you know there's
like your there your anime protagonist
Yasuo Ezreal weep there's your like edge
Lord Zedd weeb there's like your kawaii
like Ahri weeb there's different kinds
of weaves okay so you're classifying
them out your categories thing them out
yeah yeah if you had to guess cuz mark
is actually secretly a big anime fan if
you with all your data and analysis had
to guess like what we've champions mark
would be interested in what would you
say sorry well that's what animates do
you watch I'm gonna give myself a
troubles most say I would definitely
self-identify as the lolly weep i watch
some shown in and then a lot of like the
north like Death Note hope something
hopefully with some depth Full Metal
Alchemist
like a lot those ones I'm I'm the basic
bitch dude what are the basic bitch
weaves at yeah hey look you know what I
got I got a new one new hot take
character try out this new yeah
shameless plug for riot sellout try out
this new Akali
oh yeah yeah shit's fired do that I
swear to god that champion was made for
its it's a certainly T champ
you know we be like Yasuo also ionian
like well mandalas like Yasuo Hawkgirl
even better and what else yeah she's
like literally the most badass character
I think we've ever done I am so high to
play that champion so I think that's
that's my recommendation for you pick up
the new Akali all right I'll try it very
good well we let you sell out here at
the anything that you would say to any
of the fans out there the people before
we let you go caveats from all the
things that you said today yeah I mean
like listen I've ought to be honest like
with players or anyone watching back
yeah like I mean honestly like it's fine
if you guys give right a hard time I
actually think it's it's great if you
guys are like holding us to things and
like yelling at us to fix the game and
doing stuff like that I want you guys to
keep doing it one of the reasons I
really like double this video is he
called us out on stuff and access to
improve things but he did it in a really
like respectful and great way and like
there's a lot of like very vocal players
some famous who I've actually talked to
before I've even given them the viewer
it's like there's sometimes a it's I
actually really understand their
messages is sometimes the delivery of it
doesn't bother me but it can bother
other people so you know just trying to
you know work with us but if you if you
had to choose between pulling punches
and you know like being like straight
honest definitely be straight honest
with us like hit us with that good shit
like you know going on riot and honestly
like we should be held accountable to
you guys so we're gonna try to make the
game better for you guys try and yeah
we're gonna try a we'll go back to the
ship of theseus right we're gonna try
and keep the ship of League of Legends
still League of Legends for you I don't
know if how many people even understand
I wasn't gonna cut you off before
everyone goo I'm gonna post it in your
twitch chat you're all gonna read up on
this
it's remaking a ship while it's sailing
you've changed out the entire ship but
it hasn't yeah we keep changing the sail
to change the sail on a ship is it still
the ship but if you change the masses
it's still the ship if you change all
parts is it still the ship well I think
we want to do is we want to keep it the
ship of League of Legends but we want to
improve it and we also want it to when
you come back after taking a break from
League or after you know having a tough
semester at school you come back and it
still looks like the ship of League of
Legends to you maybe with some new parts
some you might not like but some we
really hope you like so yeah that's my
little plug very good well hey thank you
so much and here's a secret I've just
decided to say it now because you got
twitch chat seem to like Nathan so much
I am I'm interviewing Nathan on
Wednesday I don't know when it's gonna
come out but I'm doing a series of
interviews of some right folks about
sort of their jobs and what they do so
if you enjoyed having right Blastoise on
the show know that there should be an
interview coming out with them as long
as he didn't screw up too much and they
tell me oh actually uh nathan is
unavailable that day we'd love to have
you interview Ghostcrawler instead um
but anyway hey thanks so much Nathan for
coming on the show let me switch to a
different scene and then we'll let you
go yeah thank you guys so much for
having me thank you one second okay
there we go all right you can hang up
and leave discordant alright peace guys
thanks all right guys show is not done
yet we're getting we're getting our good
friend hunter in are we talking about a
thing before hunter hunting we want to
slide it in no I think I think we're
gonna have hunter on for that I think
it's fine okay I want a time without
calling oh this is Nathan's call so I
have to invite hunter to it so then
he'll just whatever dude yeah make it
work
figure it out and then a hunter needs to
join oh there is hi oh why are you in my
headphones that's fascinating
to work again there we go
you we're gonna join drag you into the
oh you're in the call okay you need to
meet Skype and unmute discordant John
alright and then you turn your webcam on
key component John look at my garage
yeah well no one can yet because we hope
I have I have to call the webcam on
everything does it suddenly pop up
there's a call it call a workshop see
sound like it's less like I'm stuck in
here yeah what what he's saying don't
call your garage a garage call it a
workshop oh because if you call it a
garage it sounds like you're stuck in
there for bit like no one wants to be in
a garage for a skype show what really I
would think not I think I would think
that you work out of my garage
that's why I call the workshop I love
the sideways the sideways photo of your
life in the background is an excellent
addition to the shots actually oh just
why aren't they hang it up to you what
the hell what is a headshot why would
that why would they be hanging up you
don't put them like on your desk or
anything like that's a headshot dude
it's it's like for its it's like I
understand you mail them out but it's
also low you don't under
litter and level open is it not a
headshot for like applying for like
acting shit yeah what you don't mail
them out my dude whatever mail them out
send them out hand them out whatever I'm
just saying that like when I had my pant
my parents print those out put under
their desks and shit alright high school
photos let's go let's go alright so
hunter is the welcome hunter to the show
Hunter run school and Guardians as best
as he can and he is on the show because
of a couple different things one so this
would have been a great show to have
doublelift on just so everyone knows I
invited doublelift on and he was I
wanted to have him on at the same time
as Nathan
I thought think he'd be great to have on
for this conversation which is about
pro-players and sort of the practice
environment that they said double if
declined so he said he was busy and he
he's probably just finished streaming
and competing against us as a stream and
all that stuff so we've got hunter here
instead so hunter is budget devil
afternoon actually because a lot of the
if you're watching with odd you can
pause right now you can go watch mark
zzz rant from this weekend about the
practice environment and you can watch
poe belters interview that I did with
him about sort of the challenges that
pro players have faced and sort of
setting up a good you know pseudo
soloqueue high level soloqueue
environment and for in houses which what
Mark apparently doublelift also during
this dream chimed in great a bunch of
that so love it would be great if he was
other show buddy chimed in about it yeah
I want to watch them but I don't think
it'll be able watch and have a
conversation so just check them out
later yeah well let me get my my
preamble that I've been thinking about
it well you guys find a caller so sorry
one last thing that context for the
context for a hunter being here is the
hunter you were it's interesting you
worked at riot on the right side in and
I think you were there when some of
these conversations were happening in
the first place now you're on the team
side in which case you should be heavily
incentivized to have players that get
better over time so you're in an
interesting situation where you can kind
of talk to both sides of this in in
substitute of a player I think yeah yeah
so that's that's part of my preamble
like we've been here before is region
when I joined riot we were heading into
the first msi at Tallahassee Travis's
favorite MSI to date I think by a large
margin and that was coming off of TSM
and c9 I think making it out of groups
and losing to Korean team so like you
know success not success you get beat by
Korea that's what happens and then TSM
winning I am cat if you'd say whatever
that whatever you think that tournament
was worth but Annie was like super
height we have this international on our
backyard TSM chance going off like ten
minutes before it all starts and we
thought we you know gap is closing here
we go
and then TSM just just stunk up the
joint and we and so Nicky Allen left
ride and I moved into a different role
and suddenly we were we were I was sort
of running an ALCS and we were facing
like a crisis of confidence from both
the pro players and the community about
how we propel na and keep it
competitively viable as a region you
know Mark was that curse at the time we
were talking about ideas I was talking
to Saint about things you know we got a
lot of feedback from pros from owners
from from players from coaches from the
community about what should we do and we
tried to do a number of things in
response to that one is we switched to
bo3 so we made like a big push to switch
to bo threes - we like I went and told
everybody that they could do in houses
on the tournament round which hadn't
been allowed before that and I even told
them at the time that they could use the
queuing system like they could queue up
for ranked if they wanted to but I
caveated that heavily by saying like
it's designed for millions of people not
like a hundred so TBD is actually gonna
happen if you guys use it but in theory
it should work yeah I actually have your
ear I don't know who was you who sent
this to me or ovie or who but i had the
original document that you guys sent me
when you guys just bring it up on the
show no I don't know if you can but I
don't remember what's in there but me
know if something bad
yeah oh yeah I mean I think we were
talking about it and and three you know
we were talking about like okay scrims
is this really manual recording process
and getting data can we run like
programs in addition to help Snarf's
date or whatever and what we ended up
doing is like changing it so that match
history wasn't saved for scrims in the
tournament realm so the people didn't
have to quit out of screws every time
and they would have their own history
that they could look at and a bunch of
other little things so we were working
on these like quality of life
improvements to to try to make na more
competitively viable and ultimately like
this big issue around paying and
laziness pros and whatever which i think
which i think mark did a good job
calling out it's like a totally fair
issue ping is high and that sucks but
it's also not something I'm glad you
guys asked right at the beginning and
you should bring that guy on and you can
ask it it's also something that's really
difficult for Riot to fix and the pros
like during the same time we're getting
sort of
I think correctly kind of shit on by the
community for complaining that servers
were being moved and that was bad for
the hundred professional players as
opposed to better for the millions of
pro players so sort of stuck offering in
houses offering a cue that would work
the pros didn't really use it and that's
too bad
trying to do some other things bo3 and
other things to help NAB competitively
viable like I think I think we did some
solid stuff so I'm here to try to answer
questions to Peter would feel
uncomfortable answer I can speak from
both my time when I was at riot and my
time here as best I can I'll try to be
you know relatively brief since you know
I'm coming on a little bit later in the
show but my main point is just that this
is a cycle that that we go through as na
gets feels more and less confident about
how it's going to do it the next
international and when we're more
confident we don't worry about these
issues and when we're less confident we
worry a lot about some of these systemic
problems in the for fund region and you
know hyping and other things as we're
looking for excuses why why we're not
doing as well you know and so I think we
should continue to respond and try to
improve but I just also think it's worth
people remembering that we've done this
we like we've been exactly here two
years ago or whenever it was you know
grappling with some of these same issues
yeah but so but we we all agree it's a
problem right do we agree that it's a
problem that North America pros are
disadvantaged by a sort of high paying
low quality of soloqueue system so yes
yes I think I think everybody agrees
that's a problem okay yeah so and I
think the question is how do you solve
it like scouting grounds is one of the
things I work to implement when I was at
Riot to try to solve right will put
upward pressure on the top of the NA
soloqueue ladder to try to reduce you
know some of the sort of for fun
attitude right like in houses are one
way you can solve it some the core issue
of high ping I don't think that's you
know realistically I mean I guess it's
solvable but riots not gonna solve them
yeah you're not gonna be Korea you're
never gonna be Korea so like figure out
what else you need to do and like I
watched the pobelter video in
preparation for this and like I don't
think I disagreed with anything he said
you know like I intentionally that
segment is called the
is supposed to be a little over-the-top
not supposed to be completely fair and
balanced and in the very beginning of it
I say I'm not gonna accurately like go
over the entire topic of anything I just
wanted to put a nail in the coffin that
like n/a pros are streaming too much for
in houses to work and like the street
because it's something that got brought
up every time in houses got brought up
it sounded like what you can't stream on
it well the players used to stream much
more before right I think that's it was
what rumor that's why do i do think
anecdotally that's true I think Soren
used to stream a lot more than he does
their way I think it's fair to say now
now they're not and yeah and I still had
some good points but also some on the
other hand Peter could not come on the
show cuz he had to stream against it but
he's not streaming I mean so I could
have hosted the show hold on we just
talked about like I could have done the
math back then and I would need to but
like TSM stream more than they do now c9
maybe but honestly not really balls was
not a prolific streamer lemon was not a
big streamer media if it's streaming
media Luther stream PI was on and off on
on Team look at the times this is summer
of 2015 that we're talking about here
Team Liquid piglet was the most popular
streamer like daunting stream back stand
like was Dyer still plenty IRA still
plays he strea semanas chinois but what
about like envy and those guys right I
don't was envy around in 2015 are not
envy I meant to say whose red jerseys
tvk and renegades energy even if they
were streaming I was it was important
that you put the like viewership hours
in there even if energy was streaming a
ton it's not like there were 40,000
viewers watching watching them stream at
the time we even at the time we're
talking about it's like sneaky and
double if you know there were five
streamers that were probably vanishes
yeah tip my five streamers who were
massively disadvantaged by the no
streaming thing and you know 95 other
pros who would have benefited from a
robust in-house system yeah it's a
totally different environment from then
so I like maybe that argument would have
held more water then I'm just saying
that like right now the fact that like
as this conversation was going on
earlier in the week I saw a lot of
comments about
streaming I just want to kill it
consider it's not a factor I'm sure as
far as I can tell but or our fan ALCS
pros too lazy no I think they don't have
good tools yeah so yes I think they're
lazy about this this like self
matchmaking system overall I don't think
there's a laziness issue I think also
like that shit's annoying and there's no
there's no leadership amongst them to
make it like when the when special and
high you know and those guys who have
about as much natural leadership amongst
that kind of group can't get it done
it's I don't think it's laziness exactly
but it is but its inertia or something
yeah it's right so like laziness can
mean a lot of things like I am
unbelievably lazy as a person like I
don't like cleaning I sit in my bed all
day I'm a fucking bum but I'm a very
very very hard worker for work right so
I get my lazier my not lazy our pro
player is lazy no they spend like 80
hours a week on their goddamn jobs
course not lazy
can they problem solve anything that
isn't problem solved for them they don't
have a great history of that so okay so
that's a great that's a great
jumping-off point for my next thing
hunter you and the other teams would
probably do benefit from a stronger
North America internationally you guys
provide so many services for them
already where like I you know I'm not
gonna say the comment I was thinking but
let's say you drive them a lot of places
you feed them you do everything you can
to like just let them focus on the thing
for a while I don't know if this is
still the case people had to wake up
players literally wake up players get
them out of the bed to get them to the
scrim on tired players like like
reprimanded for being late okay so you
guys babysit them so much why not just
solve this problem for them why not
coordinating all the different team
owners to create like all right guys you
we we have this period of time is so I
think we did in the sense that like
third blocks are the solution to all of
this which is you know we are sort of
collectively increasing the number of
organized games or reps for these guys
the boys get confused when we say third
block or triple sucks so yeah so the way
the scrim day works
on average is that Tuesday through
Friday there's a the first block of
three games that runs like 11:00 to 2:00
and then there's a lunch break from 2:00
to 3:00 and then the second block of
games which runs from three to six
o'clock and then there's a dinner break
from 6 to 7 or so and then now most
teams are running 3rd blocks most days
which is you know two or three games
from 7:30 to 10 o'clock somewhere in
that range depending on I mean like days
have a natural variance but it is
something like that and that that is
like a and I think that I think the one
part about what pole-vaulter said and I
think our Sean said this too that I that
I really do agree with this that this is
probably the best short-term solution
for these things which is you just
increase the number of organized games
now third blocks are more casual than
the first two blocks oh really
not intentionally just sort of it's
there at the end of the day they're more
tired they've like used a lot of their
brain cells and energy in the first two
blocks and so people are unintentionally
I think just slightly less serious so it
is so it is closer to kind of a
soloqueue environment in that sense it
is a nice kind of middle ground and that
that is like directly trying to solve
that which is getting these guys more
reps on a on a low ping model people you
can use your Academy team to do this you
can use another LCS team different teams
are taking different approaches to
getting more reps on that on that low
ping server yeah so I I've definitely
heard that exact same thing we're like
the the third block by the time you get
there a lot of time is kind of just like
yeah it's not great practice compared to
the first two it's what I hear so I
definitely heard that the other thing I
agree with with PO Beltre is like they
players have tried this and I think the
players that did put the effort in way
back in 2016 when bjergsen was the one
who was doing a lot of the legwork on
trying to get in houses off the ground
high being another guy who at one point
did a lot of legwork and especially I
think also having a period of time where
he did a lot of legwork they have like a
stream dock or like a in house dock and
they got people in there and the problem
was you know eleven to twenty people
would show up and that's not enough
people and you need to hit a critical
mass before it becomes useful and that's
why I would say like it's not fair to
universally label all people in the
North American scene as lazy but you can
say you know if if you couldn't get your
own teammates to do it because I heard
that was a problem not all the teammates
even on a single team were invested in
it and like of course it's gonna fall
flat but is that a problem with the idea
of in houses or is that a problem of the
execution oh yeah I think like it only
takes a couple people to screw up in
houses for everybody and you know I
think while the scene has gotten
significantly more professional in the
last two years some of those things
you're mentioning Travis I just for most
teams I don't think are an issue anymore
people get up they they come to work
they you know like you don't have to
worry about that stuff you know if you
need 50 people if one person doesn't
show up that's 9 other people who have
to sit around doing nothing because they
don't have a because they don't have a
10th guy so like I think I think you
know houses can solve certain amount of
things for like the dedicated view but
they're not they're not like a great
general solution so right yeah but I
think one thing I want a Mythbusters the
like the playerbase thing I think to
play a race excuses like I think that's
a bad excuse for pro players to make and
I think it's a really thing for the for
the region to fall back on so a large
prior use is gonna increase right like
the average skill of a masters to your
player because there are more people
funneling them right and so you're gonna
discover more better players but
basically when the pros are saying we
don't have enough good players of high
elo what they're really saying is I
would be I'm international tier but
everyone else at this level is not and
so I can't get good in a practice when
the truth is some percentage of them
would be replaced by whatever those
other players are who would be moving up
in that system and so I think it's like
it's a it's a shitty dodge there are
enough good players at high level that
queue times are relatively low and
they're getting good enough quality
games I don't think like the average
quality of a high elo game is a
legitimate problem for practice given
what they all say is what they do during
practice right so so I actually on two
levels I think that is like a really bad
argument well I wanna so on that level I
agree
but I think if you're talking about just
like in terms of raw talent pool of
North American skill
I actually agree that right I should be
complaining about that not yeah Claire's
right like I should be complaining about
that because I want I want you know the
best players possible so that I can win
worlds and players should be saying it
since like you know I want better
teammates so I need but like from a make
it makes me better sort of sort of feel
I think like I think that's kind of a
crappy I get it but I just think it's I
think it's kind of a crappy a crappy
excuse and and not one I think the
player should fall back on all right I
mean I understand it to look I think
when you go from playing in Korea to
coming back to na it probably feels
really bad there's a chance sorry to cut
in isn't there a chance that given more
if you had a larger player base you
would have more the people who take
soloqueue seriously wouldn't be more
likely to percolate up to the top and so
at the highest levels of solo queue you
would have more people taking the game
seriously which would lead to much
better so yeah like cutie-pies not
trolling in high challenge right like
he's in diamond one like all these guys
people complain about aren't up there
you know like what I mean you can watch
these streams it's not that's not as
much their one tricks up there for sure
but I actually think there's benefit to
one tricks rising up and so look you and
and you know I mean you LCS pros would
disagree with you right and that they
see a significant enough difference in
North America and EU soloqueue that they
bring it up maybe they're not rights or
maybe it's just an easy thing for them
to make fun of us about but like they
they seem to significantly and and
Korean pros and they've come over here
and I've interviewed them that all the
other players seem to think that are in
a solo queue is giving them less
valuable practice so I I understand
agree with that it's not that it's wrong
it's just like.how it's it's one of what
else would they criticize like if if an
na if Korea comes here EU comes here
what are they experiencing are they on
an na team are they criticizing how we
do things internally no they're
criticizing what they have you know
access to and one thing that they have
access to is our solo queue and it is no
other way around about it it is
definitely worse than the Korean solo
queue experience or a European solo
queue experience and I I don't I don't
take any issue with that but all I'm
saying is I think it's
not as big of an issue as the greater
North American issues that we have as a
region for why we don't win I just think
it's one of the most publicly facing
ones because when people come over here
and they're like why is any bad
they have no fucking idea about how we
do things but they play it on our
soloqueue and they can talk about that
and they have to grind from plat one all
the way up right so they're seeing the
whole journey including that middle like
middle diamond tier of you know sort of
one police or whatever the guys know
exactly right
alright well let's take some calls
because we're starting to run out of
time
yeah paint if you want to come on I
would love to have you want to talk a
little chat if he wants to come on yeah
so do you want to get a new set of new
questions going mark I think the sushi
ones relevant sushi one is good I just
want like we've reintroduced a whole new
topic I feel like people should have a
new chance to come on the show I mean a
lot of people put their topics and
expecting this to be the topic okay well
sorry guys if you want to come on the
show well it's also 9:50 mark so it's
fully people hey guys you guys want to
get on the show when we hang up in 10 20
minutes all right
thanks finishing a game and he'll be the
last caller yeah really quickly thank
you to Jedi mace for subbing dr.
Manhattan 18 who says eight months
woohoo the undead Titan keep up the
great work
her boobs gifted a subject Pluto a ste
SXT south 36 0 Kirin Gogh Christian zero
three six nine sent ten thousand bits or
a thousand bits not ten thousand
thousand bits which is so great JD Jared
HTM and frag byte light we've got sushi
back on the show sushi you want to react
or question alright so my question is
that should na have like multiple
servers or like a hub of service just
like in China because the pinging issue
that a lot of people are bringing back
up you want to talk about breaking up
our top player base even more exactly
anything that's the challenge is that
the bulk of the player base is in the
East Coast all the pros are in the West
Coast so you know you're going to
probably exacerbate whatever the
whatever the core problem on the kind of
player base size is if you split the
region in half and some form to get
lower pick yeah the the two factors that
are playing against each other is how
many people do you have up there playing
who are good and how many people also
have low ping and those two things are
actually at odds with each other if you
try and fix ping you make the other one
worse if you try and fix the player base
you make the penguin and it's just a
matter for like 99 3 to 60 ping doesn't
matter for 99.5 for some of the players
as much like there's probably a lot of
people that are watching this so it'd be
like I'd be diamond 1 if it wasn't for
my 60 paying my mechanics or like it
really doesn't matter if the cost got
chops you and your challenger I mean yes
Nikki hit top 100 from Florida back when
it had 1 100 something well yeah but
like I'm saying like you know we have a
ping well we have everyone server and up
in California and the serve in or let's
say currently in Chicago right but those
two connect to a main hub like in the
middle so people still could play with
each other and have the same time yeah
so I'm not a network technician but I'm
pretty sure it doesn't work that way
like everybody's playing in one
centralized server farm it's in Chicago
right now I think if you decentralize it
you end up with what China is and again
so you could have like a West Coast
server but but then you're just gonna
have their West Coast players on you
take an Ethernet cable from do you want
me to say latency so you don't freak out
because he's freaking out about ping but
either way yeah the bigger issue that
comes to is what happens when the West
Coast becomes the good server right like
if you even do like you can't make to
you and then put a hub in the middle
because that's still the same problem of
transmission time as far as I understand
it would be easier and a lot of people
suggest this there's no way this would
ever happen it would be easier to move
LCS to Chicago than to create two
servers I think like that's an easier
solve so
really but yes I mean that would be oh
yes
that's it that's an incredibly expensive
solution but yeah you know when we
regionalised and TSM by Chicago was
there as their home because they want
the lowest paying than they their
latency whatever then when you're in
game it's called ping then and then they
can then they can they can practice with
the best conditions yeah yeah
sushi thank you so much for your call
sorry if we shut down here you're quiet
I've no I think it's a it's a great
question there just is like there there
is unfortunately like a good answer not
a good answer
well okay there's a practical answer
yeah probably the future something might
happen yeah you live in Seattle right
yep is does the whole city take the day
off for prime day sushi thank you so
much for your call all right moving on
to the next collar and some shadows I'm
Airi Waddell resub for six months hire
an arrow for fourth host I don't even
know as it is a washed-up coach hi bit
subd tsunami tsunami chef subd Hassan 23
subbed I sell corn 360 st. Louis Slayer
24 Blue Jay 1344 resub dances hi mark hi
Nathan hi Kelby hi Kobe hi Chad we got
our next caller on the show which is Ben
Ben where you come from Nashville
Nashville your is your icon a naked man
for those that don't know maybe soon you
guys don't use discord you can consider
an avatar or whatever and I just always
click it look at somebody's avatar and
his appears to be a naked man wearing a
cowboy hat and he's like I'm from
Nashville I'm like oh oh I guess guess
you are and thanks for being a twitch
sub what do you want to talk about on
the show so I want to talk about seal G
because I think they're enough and I
think they're gonna win the split phrase
Nick Helen still here
he's staying I have to strongly disagree
I that the CLG leadership is just in
shambles bring bring back
Kelby may that's what I so what I would
say is I think we saw the like
elimination
you know disillusionment nerf that hit
CLG in the final week like I think if
they had if if we had beat TSM to keep
CLG alive they would have closed out
last split one out and and kept going
but we we undercut their momentum and so
I think they figured out what makes them
good now I have no idea if they're gonna
win you know very like a combination of
both parity and inconsistency but I
definitely think there's a lot to be
happy about there if you're a CLG fan
for sure now we play them on Saturday so
that's one loss ahead of them and then
you know so but but yeah i think i think
clg's got a shot I think they're clearly
bouncing back and I think c9 and echo
fox and hundred thieves struggling or
making questionable decisions from from
a management standpoint opens the door
for a bunch of new people to potentially
make playoffs and at that point
anything's possible questionable
decision sir are you calling out your
colleagues not by name okay oh you
talked about leaving the door open for
other teams how is the door open for you
guys I thought you you guys were the
devil and a horrible org but here you
are at 4-4 what's going so I don't think
those are mutually exclusive I can be
the devil and we can be a horrible or
good we certainly wouldn't be the four
first horrible org to make playoffs in
an ALCS that's a great answer okay sorry
so back to the CLG stuff not the golden
Guardian stuff no I think they're but
their bottom Lane is amazing bio frosted
bio Fosters is tremendous I think they I
think they have figured out what they
can do well you know and and
statistically like I think there's a ton
of great arguments about both their
jungle top lane synergy and their bottom
Lane to you know to help them get ahead
mark I assume you I don't know about
your early powering this but you have
them as a playoff team at a minimum
right yeah at this point absolutely I
would have had them pretty highly rated
we didn't do I didn't
for summer but this like like you said
the 600 thing and then they went 0 2 on
the last week once their dreams were
dead like a grenade they would have
probably one of those games or at least
looked good in them had that not
happened and then they pick up right
where they left off basically because it
was 6 a.m. by Oh Frost what happened for
them was like it was a carry top meta in
the first half of spring split and they
tried to play around darshan and for
whatever reason it just like didn't work
out and then right when the meta track
kind of flipped they also said that they
made bio frost like the primary shot
call or something around the same time
and then how to know where they go on a
monstrous win streak and since then they
kind of found their identity and I I
think we definitely headed for playoffs
and the early games discussing their
battling is disgusting they have a
really good chance of getting pretty far
based off how the other top teams look
yeah so or that mark or is it that
they're good or is it that the other
teams are bad cuz that's the question I
was gonna say is that it just I like you
got fucking Team Liquid just they don't
really look great in the next game where
I'm like why is this team in LCS I have
this really amazing staff that Jack gave
me that like I'm gonna blow here and get
really mad at me nice it's a little
badger I love blowing Jets load stats so
anyways so we looked at how because his
predictions are awful right now he's
below 50% prediction rings yes has it
he's been yeah I mean his switch to
analysts has has been he beat me lastly
and then this please in the gutter okay
but but so we try to figure out why that
was happening and he looked at every
time a higher seeded team played a lower
seeded team and how often and upset
happened and an upset actually happened
64 percent of the time really yeah I
mean my quest golden Guardian yes like
there's teams doing surprisingly well so
far yeah but it's not even just like
from last season it includes this
season's like any time like Team Liquid
plays someone below them that counts as
like if it's enough set or not so
literally 64 percent of time they lose
the worst team wins and then we checked
EU just to compare it you it happens 26
percent of the time yeah so like it's
it's a crazy
season right now I think it's pretty
clear that none of the top teams are
actually that great which probably just
means North America sucks right I'm
being honest yes I think every region
should have like they're clear best
teams and we don't which is not a good
thing we don't at least right now right
not yet maybe we get one but golden
Guardians is on the rice so they're
they're heading that direction
figuring it out yep
very good yeah i mean i think the CLG
stuff is interesting I'm excited for it
they're the only team that's ever shown
up on the international stage so my
former colleague Taylor anytime another
team loses on the international stage
North America he just tweets like CLG
would have won this so they all have to
see what happens but it would be it
would be nice to see those guys figure
it out
thanks so much Ben for coming on the
show yeah thanks for raining twists up
and maybe you put some clothes on next
time all right
we've got two more calls thank you to
the Saint message me and say he's not
gonna be able to uh join it yes ain't
that bite by default he now agrees with
all of my points in his loss CRT he was
explicitly disagreeing with us in chat
which is why I'm sorry
much like Peter not coming on the show
they don't have a voice they're wrong
concerning clover has subbed as the rush
comes thirteen subbed mmm dude five
hundred subs Braund bond dance
rush come home bible thump reset for
eight months and then a slew of biblical
gifts which I will get to you should
just have st. on next week this this
topics not going anywhere
you know like who knows I mean it's like
US politics but I feel like this is sort
of evergreen I think for this split
until divided nzl is on the show he's at
which sub I should say I believe it's a
he based on his picture holding a hawk
and his game that he is playing
according to this court is watching
garbage anime so happy to have you on
the show divide where he come from I'm
done near Queenstown New Zealand that's
Hulk that my friend found just kind of
sitting in a lotion so we feed at some
steak and picked it up so this is the
most New Zealand call I've ever had just
from the first ten seconds deep do you
do most New Zealanders watch garbage
anime um I probably not
okay so just usually yeah I will a
self-admitted degenerate yeah what time
what I wasn't there
it's five o'clock I just finished work
okay where do you work Molly ah just a
courier driver nice pretty cool what do
you use the hawk now for the courier
honestly that would be awesome yeah just
kind of worried did it scratch people
yeah that's true
hey what do you want to talk about my
show um I had a question for hunter yes
Oh golden Guardians finished him fly
split not to be mean or anything but the
split you guys are tied for fifth and
four and four you've only really made a
change with the mid laner and adding ex
fishel as assistant coach so that is it
within the team whereas it with those
players it's made the change with the
other team sucking both I mean I think
like you know like I said earlier I do
think some other like I think some teams
over performed in spring relative to you
know what I think was their base skill
level and we're seeing some teams come
back down to earth I think some teams
have unquestionably made themselves
worse at least in the short term you
know and whether that pans out for them
in the long term or not
you know TV D like cloud 9 might be
struggling now and figure it all out and
win you know their final 10 games and
and get to first and hundred thieves may
may take some short short-term pain and
then circle back and same with echo Fox
with some of their changes right but so
so I think those definitely benefit us
you know we are we are still getting
like I think overlooked you know we get
the like tiel's looking past us kind of
kind of a game where we get to sneak up
on them or they you know take a risk
against us that they probably shouldn't
take so I like I think that works in our
favor but I also think we're better than
we were last but you know some of that
is is Mickey brings a different thing
to the team then I did some of that is a
special I think leading reviews you know
provides a different level of feedback
for the guys and kind of day-to-day
practice and some of that is that like
we created this leadership to you know
sort of vacuum that that lor low and
contracts and mad are all you know
filling in in different ways and and you
know I think we're getting better and
better still at kind of picking up some
of those pieces what but one of the
things that I really enjoyed
I heard the deftly interview right
before the start of this I don't know if
you saw it Hunter pieces yeah yeah he
did say fuck you did you catch that I
didn't but fuck you honey specifically
right okay well anyway he he was
mentioning like special basically forced
him to play Heimerdinger he didn't want
to but I think that's a good sign I
think it's a good sign so like I think
you know it's definitely an interesting
there's a there's a you know kind of a
and I'm sure mark and speak to this
there's like a tug of war between
coaches and players around
experimentation in a lot of ways like
players are you know League is a pretty
risk-averse thing to begin with and pro
players in particular for sensitivity
reasons and limited time reasons and
other things are are you know can be
very reluctant to experiment and coaches
have a lot of ideas around what would be
good and so every team you know has a
different kind of ease with trying new
things out and experimenting and and
potentially wasting time doing something
and that's one where I think expecially
made a really great call and Matthew
like actually picked it up really fast
and found like a natural sort of play
style that worked for him but it's you
know like I think I think every team has
to figure out how much experimentation
they're comfortable with and how much
time they're willing to put towards it
how are you feeling these days given the
because you I know just from talking to
you guys that the team was having a
tough time last last split even though
this was all kind of according to your
plan right like you we did that
interview the starter split and you said
we're gonna be 10th but it was free
split well we'll get a solid six maybe
in in summer no but I mean like there
was an intention that you guys were not
going to come out
as a top-tier team and that you were
potentially in a struggle while you
found your footing because you were
looking at players who had potentially
been overlooked on their former teams it
does feel like the plan is possibly
working now yeah I think it's possibly
working now
so obviously I feel much better although
you know we won these twos we had our
first two a weekend when I was not there
because I was in New York for four NBA
2k you know and so like that that is sad
but like overall like I think we should
feel happy I think we we've now won four
games we won four games last lid we you
know if we keep splitting weeks the way
this is going I think we're certainly
right on that playoff picture and we get
a we get a 200 here or whatever I think
they're really good I think we I think
we should feel happy we we built a team
that we thought you know would be would
build towards consistent success like
that's a clear goal is not mortgaging
the future for sort of for sort of
success in the present and I don't you
know I don't know whether we've been
successful at that yet but the
improvements make me feel like we're
definitely heading in the right
direction and we're sort of we're sort
of on on pace as it were I think to get
where we want to be for next year and
then for the you know ten years beyond
that you were there you were gone this
weekend I was gone yeah so this is the
first time they've ever gone to yeah
it's the first time first time we ever
went to Oh first time I haven't been at
LCS coincidence
I hope not because I'm gonna be there
again this weekend but if we - Oh with
I'm not there and then we owe to this
weekend when I'm back I may just Vaska
asks if you're streaming out of a
Goodwill store no similar though it is
my garage you know where I swear I work
from home some days and it sorta thinks
you got at the Goodwill store yeah yeah
it is actually filled with stuff
in part that's going to a Goodwill store
because we're cleaning out our house
something someone it's very good
well um Hank asked oh damn it I just I
see Peter is in Kelly's discord and I
was like oh I can just join his channel
and ask him what's up but that would
mean leaving you guys yeah and I feel
like Mark wants to go the after-show
if it was Sam SS I'll take out there
yeah yeah
and I could go where I can answer one
question wait why don't we we can all
mark do you have Kelly's discordant no
let's not do that I'm gonna link it tell
you right now how about you go in there
and ask if they want to come on here no
no because he Peter we just like those
pro players are lazy he won't if we
invade that Channel and we tell them
just like drop in and be like hey let's
discuss this shit cuz he probably is
relaxing I mean he's not here for a
reason right yeah where you are alright
alright which I just understand that we
would have had Peter I'm saying going
forward I want to talk to him I don't
want to jump in discord I want to answer
another question we do have a New
Zealand friend still is here divided
thank you so much for call did we
address all your your thoughts I'm
pretty much the only other thing do you
reckon kind of Rican that being teams
places actually helped you and motivated
you to really try better before you
answer that Travis can you go last SS
just you can go and leave and come back
how would I hear how would hunter how
would anyone hear 100 ask him if he
wants to talk yeah go ask him is what
I'm saying you know if I leave discord
howl like that everyone will just hear
the Peter conversation that's fine
that's just like the show's over at this
point I'm saying I don't care we'll just
sit here and wait and talk about tonight
but there's a question you do whatever
you want
so did it motivate I say I would say for
the players it definitely did one of the
things I was really struck by when we
came back from break is while I had you
know I think tried to consciously put
you know set a real competitive goal for
the split in a way that we didn't for
spring split and you know in making
playoffs they had done even more you
know sort of putting of pressure on
themselves from finishing 10th and we
actually like sort of had a sneakily
high-pressure environment when the guys
came back and were working really hard
before the first week and it actually I
was sort of behind in realizing how much
pressure they were putting on themselves
and we had to recalibrate
some of the way we
Roach reviews and other things to make
sure that we were matching the level of
intensity that those guys were bringing
every day and you know continuing to
challenge them in the way that they
needed from the organization so in a way
I don't know if it did organizationally
indirectly it did as in like the players
I think we're so motivated by that that
they pushed they pushed me and the org
to push them harder and and you know put
put more pressure on all of us hey thank
you so much divided for the call that's
all right
thanks for calling in all the way from
New Zealand appreciate thank you okay
all right I'm gonna mute my stream
really quickly I'll go to Kelly's this
quarter I'll ask him it'll take ten
seconds everybody hang in there hang in
everybody
you
Cal Cal B you're on screen do you want
to say hi to hotline League hello
hotline link uh if you were if you were
a still hear me yeah I can hear you mark
just comes Kelly do you have a hotline
league audience yeah
try Treach on legendary your own risk we
were trying to see if the war plug was
brought to you by Kelby Mae yeah we were
trying to see if Peter was here because
then we could get him on the show
against his will no no we need to stay
here mark can come over I gave him the
disk or that because of the show with
Kelby mark are you coming over oh he
can't hear me
let's go back let's go mark and then you
can come back don't come to the discord
I just links in the chat okay
anyway so that's that's the show
Oh mark is here okay good
mark do you have anything that you would
say here at any shots any plugs anything
you would you would say at the other
show no no nothing nope let's get our
you yours is in a rush again what this
hotline does often no one cares all my
shitty jokes about how I'm boring and
I'm not doing anything so true yeah I'm
so floored enough to know that they'd
rather hear a real conversation all
right hunter any shoutouts any plugs at
the end of the show no I mean I think I
want to thank all the gold Guardians
fans in general those of you who stuck
with us through last wit and those of
you who are finding us now you know it's
great to have you aboard and just in
general like I I this is a fun just
topic that we're talking about more
broadly about how to make na a better
region I think is a really interesting
topic and valuable and we should keep
talking about it but but maybe that's
enough for one night and if Peter you
know accidentally stumbles back into
this room while you still have the call
along you should ask him some questions
thanks everybody uh
Kelby Thank You hunter
Shelby any shoutouts plugs anything at
the end of the show you wanna say mmm no
I'm good what's what he said like you're
in pain he's
because waking up from a total war coma
I am in pain right now dude as you're
still feeling on my fucking throat
alright alright alright well I'm gonna
go back to the other discord or I'm
gonna drop down a different channel
since you know alright guys thanks
everyone for joining this is hotline
League episode yeah just saying goodbye
we're wrapping the show alright this has
been episode 36 of hot line League
really appreciate everyone who watched
I'm gonna hang out on stream for a
little bit at the end of the show where
as the show ends we do put it on audio
version of this show and so feel free to
hit that up I think it's on Spotify but
stuff and on iTunes and Google Play and
stuff I've been told it's on Spotify
just wasn't able to find a so good take
a look for it thanks to omen by HP by
the way I'm rocking the new @ao t-shirt
they now have a t-shirt you can get I'm
normally a large but this is an extra
large if you if you have a gut it's very
form-fitting so you got to go one size
up you can hit that up at OTO comm my
friends thank you everyone for watching
this has been hot line League episode 36